-: Welcome back.
As part of step 05, we are going to understand
about the ingress class concept in ingress controllers.
So if we go back to our PowerPoint presentation here,
and let's understand the problem scenario here
and where the ingress class comes into the picture.
So if we have multiple ingress controllers running
in our Kubernetes cluster,
how to identify to which ingress controller
our ingress resources service should be associated to.
So if you take your Kubernetes cluster,
you have E case ALB-related load balancer ingress controller
installed on your Kubernetes cluster.
And also you are running the NGINX ingress controller
and you are also running
the AKS application gateway ingress controller.
So assume like this multiple English controllers
are running in our Kubernetes cluster,
and you have deployed your ingress resource using kubectl,
our ingress service.
And that ingress survey should be associated
to which ingress controller?
So there comes the concept called Kubernetes object type
or Kubernetes object of kind ingress class.
And not only these three English controllers.
So if you see here,
there are many ingress controllers available in the market
as on today from Kubernetes perspective.
So to identify and associate
your respective Kubernetes ingress service
to a ingress controller,
we use the concept called ingress class.
So this is the high-level definition of the ingress class
we are going to define
so that it is going to associate it
to our ALB ingress controller.
So if you see here,
standard Kubernetes YAML manifest format,
API version, kind, metadata, and then spec.
And API version for ingresses,
we are going to use networking.k8s.ivo/v1.
So earlier in the ALB 1.1 version,
we are using a different version
which is not supported in the latest Kubernetes versions.
And now the supported version is going to be this one,
the API version, networking.k8s.ivo/v1.
In fact, this is the reason
why we are redoing this entire use case here
in addition to also the new version of AWS load
balancer controller also introduced.
And you can see here the kind is ingress class.
In metadata, we have the name and annotations,
and in name, we have provided the name
as my AWS ingress class.
And annotations, we'll come back to it later.
And in the spec, this is the important part.
You have the controller
and you are defining the controller as ingress.k8s.aws/alb.
So here, use this ingress class, right?
So whatever the ingress class you are deploying,
so this is tied to your controller,
which is nothing but your AWS ALB ingress controller.
And whenever in the ingress service
you use this name ingress class name,
whatever it is, my AWS ingress class,
so which means that ingress service
will be associated to this respective controller
which is AWS ALB ingress controller.
So now let's come back to this annotation,
ingressclass.kubernetes.ivo/ is default class and then true.
So what exactly this does?
So let's see in the next slide about that.
So you have a ingress class, right?
And you have a ingress resource.
So we are going to do a ingress resource
by live template writing in upcoming sections.
But this is just to understand ingress resource is nothing
but it's like you are going to create
the application load balancer using the Kubernetes manifest.
So on a high level, I will explain it here,
and in upcoming sections in the next section,
which is ingress basics,
we are going to do the live template writing
for this respective resource.
Here, the point we are trying to understand
is about the is default class equal to true or not?
So this is APA version networking k8s.ivo/v1,
and kind is ingress.
So you can see here this is the ingress class
and this is the ingress.
And metadata and name, you can see ingress NGINX app fun.
So this is the ingress service you are going to create.
And we'll leave the labels.
It's a standard one.
So we'll go to annotations,
and you can see here ALB ingress kubernetes.ivo
and load balancer name you are giving app one ingress,
and also scheme, you are saying that this ingress service
should be created at the internet facing.
So which means this creates the application load balancer
in AWS as a internet-facing load balancer.
So here comes the API version, kind, metadata,
and then spec.
In spec, before going to this ingress class name,
also review this default backend.
So this default backend has a service
and whose name is app one NGINX note port service
and this note port service will be listening on port 80.
So which means this application load balancer
will have a default backend, which will send the traffic
to the Kubernetes service off type note port.
And inside this note port, you'll have a selector labels
which will be pointing to your deployment,
Kubernetes deployment, where you'll have
the upward NGINX engineers deployment.
The functioning of ingress service or resources,
not the core concept here.
Important thing here is, so let's understand this.
So you see the name of your ingress classes,
my AWS ingress class.
And inside this ingress resource,
you are saying the ingress class name
is my AWS ingress class.
So if ingress class is not defined
as is default class equal to true,
then ingress resource, right?
We need to define the spec.ingres class name,
whatever you want to specify
so that this resource will be directly associated
with the English controller,
which is nothing but AWS ALB ingress controller.
So now here comes the point.
So if we enable these two lines,
annotations and then say,
this has the default ingress, right?
So which means you're saying AWS ALB controller
as the default ingress in your Kubernetes cluster.
So at that point of time,
this value which is ingress class name,
whatever you are defining here,
you really don't need to define, you can comment it.
So how many number of ingress resources
or services you are going to deploy
all will be associated with the ingress controller,
which is defined as the default in your Kubernetes cluster.
So this completes the high-level introduction
about ingress class, and in our next lecture,
we are going to practically implement this.
So I'll see you in the next lecture.
Until then, bye-bye.
Thank you.